# Content Configuration

The `content` section of your `tailwind.config.js` file is where you configure the paths to all of your HTML templates, JavaScript components, and any other source files that contain Tailwind class names.


## Configuring source paths

```js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
    './components/**/*.{html,js}'
  ],
  // ...
}
```

Paths are configured as glob patterns, making it easy to match all of the content files in your project without a ton of configuration:

- Use `*` to match anything except slashes and hidden files
- Use `**` to match zero or more directories
- Use comma separate values between `{}` to match against a list of options.

Paths are relative to your project root, _not_ your `tailwind.config.js` file

- Don’t use extremely broad patterns
- Remember to include your HTML entry point if applicable.
- If you have any JavaScript files that manipulate your HTML to add classes, make sure you include those as well
- Never include CSS files in your content configuration


### Using relative paths

By default Tailwind resolves non-absolute content paths relative to the current working directory, not the `tailwind.config.js` file. This can lead to unexpected results if you run Tailwind from a different directory.

To always resolve paths relative to the `tailwind.config.js` file, use the object notation for your `content` configuration and set the `relative` property to `true`:

```diff-js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
  module.exports = {
    content: {
+     relative: true,
      files: [
        './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
        './components/**/*.{html,js}',
      ],
    },
    // ...
  }
```

## Safelisting classes

If you need to make sure Tailwind generates certain class names 
that don't exist in your content files, use the `safelist`
option:

```js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
    './components/**/*.{html,js}',
  ],
  safelist: [
    'bg-red-500',
    'text-3xl',
    'lg:text-4xl',
  ]
  // ...
}
```

One example of where this can be useful is if your site 
displays user-generated content and you want users to be able 
to use a constrained set of Tailwind classes in their content 
that might not exist in your own site’s source files.

### Using regular expressions

You can define safelisting pattern using regular expressions 
for situations where you need to safelist a lot of classes:

```js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
    './components/**/*.{html,js}',
  ],
  safelist: [
    'text-2xl',
    'text-3xl',
    {
      pattern: /bg-(red|green|blue)-(100|200|300)/,
    },
  ],
  // ...
}
```

Patterns can only match against base utility names like `/bg-red-.+/`, and won't match if the pattern includes a variant modifier like `/hover:bg-red-.+/`.

If you want to force Tailwind to generate variants for any matched classes, include them using the `variants` option:

```js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
    './components/**/*.{html,js}',
  ],
  safelist: [
    'text-2xl',
    'text-3xl',
    {
      pattern: /bg-(red|green|blue)-(100|200|300)/,
      variants: ['lg', 'hover', 'focus', 'lg:hover'],
    },
  ],
  // ...
}
```

### Discarding classes

Due to wrong class names detection, you may find that some classes are being generated that you don’t actually need.

You may also want to prevent Tailwind from generating certain classes when those classes would conflict with some existing CSS, but you don’t want to go so far as to prefix all of your Tailwind classes.

In these situations, you can use the `blocklist` option to tell Tailwind to ignore specific classes that it detects in your content:

```js {{ filename: 'tailwind.config.js' }}
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    './pages/**/*.{html,js}',
    './components/**/*.{html,js}',
  ],
  blocklist: [
    'container',
    'collapse',
  ],
  // ...
}
```

The `blocklist` option only affects CSS that would be generated by Tailwind, not custom CSS you've authored yourself or are importing from another library.

The `blocklist` option only supports strings, and you cannot block classes using regular expressions.
